= From Quiz 3=

* In Ruby, what operators are true operators? (https://launchschool.com/lessons/d2f05460/assignments/9a7db2ee)
* Describe the differences between `==`, `===`, `equal?` and `eql?`.
* In the following code, describe why the last line returns false.
  What is needed in the class definition to make it return true? Describe how your code works.
{{{ruby
class Wallet
  def initialize(ones, fives = 0, tens = 0, twenties = 0)
    @bills = { 1 => ones, 5 => fives, 10 => tens, 20 => twenties }
  end
  
  def total
    @bills.inject(0) do |sum, (value, qty)|
      sum + value * qty
    end
  end
end

wallet1 = Wallet.new(5, 1, 1)
wallet2 = Wallet.new(0, 0, 0, 1)
p wallet1.total #=> 20
p wallet2.total #=> 20
p wallet1 == wallet2 #=> false
}}}

* What method(s) are used for comparison in the following case statement?
{{{ruby
number = 42

case number
when 1          then 'first'
when 10, 20, 30 then 'second'
when 40..49     then 'third'
end
}}}
* What is something to be careful of when using class variables? Show an example in code.
* Review these posts about the Constant Lookup Path:
    * https://launchschool.com/posts/699fb006
    * https://launchschool.com/posts/49bb94e9
    * https://launchschool.com/lessons/d2f05460/assignments/b8928e96
* Fix this code so it produces the expected output. Explain why your fixes work:
{{{ruby
module Describable
  def describe_shape
    "I am a #{self.class} and have #{SIDES} sides."
  end
end

class Shape
  include Describable

  def self.sides
    SIDES
  end
end

class Quadrilateral < Shape
  SIDES = 4
end

class Square < Quadrilateral; end

Square.sides # => 4
Square.new.sides # => 4
Square.new.describe_shape # => "I am a Square and have 4 sides."
}}}
* Explain what variables are instantiated when the new `Greyhound` object is instantiated, and why.
{{{ruby
module Speedy
  def run_fast
    @speed = 70
  end
end

class Animal
  def initialize(name, age)
    @name = name
    @age = age
  end
end

class Dog < Animal
  DOG_YEARS = 7

  def initialize(name, age)
    @dog_age = age * DOG_YEARS
  end
end

class Greyhound < Dog
  include Speedy
end

grey = Greyhound.new('Grey', 3)
}}}
